GalaxyMage Redux Tutorial

A. Starting a GalaxyMageRedux Server

    To quickly get a server running start the script run_server.py in the main
GalaxyMageRedux folder. It will prompt you for a port number, but you can 
leave it blank to use the default port (54321). It will bind to localhost and 
attempt to bind your internet address. It will print that IP so that you may
share it with your frinds.

Be sure to note the port number you use so that you can open it if you are behind
a NAT or in your software firewalls.

B. Playing GalaxyMageRedux

1. Connecting to a Server
You play Galaxy Mage by starting the run_client.py script. It will ask for your
Username (can be anything, at least 4 chars long), the server (localhost if you are playing by yourself,
or the address of a remote server), and the port number of the server you are 
connecting to. If you connect you'll be taken to the Server Lobby

2. Server Lobby
Here you can see the users connected to the server, the games on the server,
and the chat for the server. To begin a game either click on one of the games
that are joinable or click on Create a new Game.

3. Creating a Game
You will be asked for a name for a game and you can choose one of the available
scenarios. You can find out how to add or create new scenarios below in C. Modding
GalaxyMageRedux.

4. Game Lobby
Before an actual game starts, you will sit in the game lobby. You can chat to
other players as you wait for everyone to connect. You can choose a different
scenario and you can choose which of the available teams you want to be on.

If you want to play by yourself or if you are tired of waiting for players you
can click Start Game, which will load the scenario and fill empty team slots by
computer bots.

5. Game Play

Once in game you will see the battle field which has tiles, Units, and other 
entities such as walls. The Units have flags next to them denoting which team
they belong to.
The controls and information takes up the bottom portion of the screen. If you
click on a unit, his stats will show up at the bottom and a menu of available
abilities will pop up next to him.
Choose the abilites or move each unit on your team until you are satisfied. Then
you can click end game. The next connected player or an AI bot will make their
decisions. And the game will play on until the scenario game over condition is
met.
You can also leave before the game is over. If the game ends, the game over
screen will show up. If you or another player disconnects you will be taken
back to the Server Lobby.

C. Modding GalaxyMageRedux

Galaxy Mage Redux is composed of scenarios, abilites, images, and units.
There is a main folder for each of these in /data/
Also, scenario specific abilities, images and units are found in /data/scenarios/<scenario>/

1. Images
The images folder holds all the sprites and tile images. Sprites may be PNG or
Animated GIFs. Tiles should be PNG. The images can be any size, just be sure to
update your scenario with the proper size of the tiles (which should all be the
same size.

2. Abilities and Units
Abilities and Units are python scripts that create new classes based on
BaseAbility and BaseUnit (whose classes are in the lib/mod_base.py). 

3. Scenarios
In the Scenarios folder are more folders which act like game packages. These
folders hold abilites, images, and units folders just like the main data folder.
All the files in the main abilites, images, and units folders can be used by
the scenarios. But the data from each scenario are not shared.

Scenarios also have four main scripts: ai.py, config.py, scenario.py, and
map.py. 

The ai.py controls how the bot units will play in this scenario.

The map.py sets up the geometric shape, the tile types/placement, and the
location of other map entities like walls or bridges.

The config.py script controls the specific variables name (the name of the
scenario as it will show up in scenario selection), num_players (the number of
players or bots needed to play the game), and  teams (the names of the 
different teams).

The scenario.py is the main script that sets up the game. It holds all the 
units for the scenario and their attributes. It determines the winning screen
and the messages needed to inform the player of the scenarios story context.

That's the overview of what you need to do to create your own Scenario or Mod.
When you have one completed you can compress the folder of your scenario and
share it. To install a scenario package just extract it under the data/scenario
folder and enjoy!